---
title: Post 79 - Acronyms Galore
date: 2025-12-07
tags:
    - idor
    - sdor
    - privesc
---

## Day 5 `IDOR` Santa's Little IDOR

Every subtitle of the room is an acronym of IDOR.  

**IDOR** - Insecure Direct Object Reference. Access control vulnerability. AKA Authorization Bypass.  

Simple example of possible IDOR is in address `https://awesome.website.thm/TrackPackage?packageID=1001`. Might be possible to change the package ID and see data without actually being allowed to change it. Many people try to fix by obfuscating the object ID, but the problem is still that the server isn't checking if a person should actually have access to the object.

### Auth vs Auth
  - **Authentication**: The process by which you verify who you are. i.e., supplying a username and password.
  - **Authorization**: The process by which the web app verifies your permissions. Are you allowed to see a page? Are you allowed to make a payment to a certain account?  

Authentication has to happen first. If the app doesn't know *who* you are it doesn't know what you should be able to do. This links to PrivEsc too.
  - **Vertical PrivEsc**: Gaining access to more features, i.e. performing actions that should be restricted to admins not normal users.
  - **Horizontal PrivEsc**: Gaining access to more data than you should be allowed to access, i.e. being able to see someone elses account.  

IDOR usually is a for of horizontal PrivEsc. 

### The Practical
Use Dev tools on website. Network tab reveals `user_id` as specifc number and reference for getting details. Storage tab allows adjusting the `user_id` value. Can determin and manipulate numbers or hashes to see other information. Depending on version of UUIDs (namely version 1), if a creation time period is known, UUIDs for can be generated and used for brute forcing. 

### The Fix
Best way to stop IDOR is to make sure the server checks who is asking for the data every time. Don't rely on obfuscation and tricks. Use random or hard to guess IDs for public links. Always test your app by trying to access other user's data. Record and monitor failed access attempts, consider to be early warning signs.

### Recommended Stuff
https://www.mwrcybersec.com/whats-the-deal-with-idor
https://uuidtools.com/decoder (Includes cool charts explaining some elements of the UUID)
IDOR room

